pySCG: addign 2nd 1335 rule doc and code (#879)
ossf/wg-best-practices-os-developers: docs/Secure-Coding-Guide-for-Python/CWE-682/CWE-1335/README.md

# CWE-1335: Incorrect Bitwise Shift of Integer

> Ensure to know what bit-wise shift operators do in case you can not avoid them as recommended in *NUM01-P3 Do Not Perform Bit-wise and Arithmetic Operations* [[SEI CERT JAVA 2024]](https://eteamspace.internal.ericsson.com/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=1122687324) on the Same Data and use math instead.

Reviewer: There is a link to the internal page. I guess it's supposed to reference the SEI CERT rule, but I'm not sure because it's `NUM01-P3` instead of `NUM01-J`
```suggestion
Ensure to know what bit-wise shift operators do in case you can not avoid them as recommended in *NUM01-J. Do not perform bitwise and arithmetic operations on the same data* [[SEI CERT JAVA 2024]](https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu/confluence/display/java/NUM01-J.+Do+not+perform+bitwise+and+arithmetic+operations+on+the+same+data) and use math instead.
```

b'\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x01'

Shifting 1000x

After: <class 'int'>
b'\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x01\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00'
```

Code `example03.py` demonstrates how Python is changing required storage in the background while keeping the class of type `int`. While this does prevent overflow in Python it can have some unexpected issues interacting with other languages. A mistake in a loop can cause Python to just continue to eat up memory while finding a natural ending in other languages.

## Non-Compliant Code Example

> Method shiftRight in `noncompliant01.py` can reach zero for positive numbers but loops forever on negative inputs.

Reviewer: I can't edit your change, so I'll add the backticks as a suggestion:
```suggestion
Method `shift_right` in `noncompliant01.py` can reach zero for positive numbers but loops forever on negative inputs.
```

*[noncompliant01.py](noncompliant01.py):*

```python
# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: OpenSSF project contributors
# SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
"""Non-compliant Code Example."""
from time import sleep

def shift_right(value: int) -> int:
    while (value != 0):
        print(f"{value}", flush=True)
        value >>= 1
        sleep(1)
    return value

value = shift_right(10)
print("Returned", value)
shift_right(-10)
print("Will never reach here")
```

## Compliant Solution

> Bit-shifting is an optimization pattern that works better for languages closer to the CPU than Python. Math in Python is better done by arithmetical functions in Python as stated by *NUM01-P3 Do Not Perform Bit-wise and Arithmetic Operations on the Same Data* [[SEI CERT JAVA 2024]](https://eteamspace.internal.ericsson.com/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=1122687324).

Reviewer: Internal reference. This time it references Python. I'm not sure if it should refer to SEI CERT because of that.

Author: this is corrected now to:

Bit-shifting is an optimization pattern that works better for languages closer to the CPU than Python. Math in Python is better done by arithmetical functions in Python as stated by *CWE-1335: Promote readability and compatibility by using mathematical written code with arithmetic operations instead of bit-wise operations* [[OpenSSF Secure Coding in Python 2025]](https://github.com/ossf/wg-best-practices-os-developers/blob/main/docs/Secure-Coding-Guide-for-Python/CWE-682/CWE-1335/01/README.md).

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<a href="http://cwe.mitre.org/">MITRE CWE</a>
</td>
<td>
Base: <a href="https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/1335.html">[CWE-1335: Incorrect Bitwise Shift of Integer (4.12)]</a>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<a href="https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu/confluence/display/java/SEI+CERT+Oracle+Coding+Standard+for+Java">[SEI CERT Oracle Coding Standard for Java]</a>
</td>
<td>
<a href="https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu/confluence/display/java/NUM14-J.+Use+shift+operators+correctly">[NUM14-J. Use shift operators correctly]</a>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<a href="https://www.securecoding.cert.org/confluence/display/seccode/CERT+C+Coding+Standard">[CERT C Coding Standard]</a>
</td>
<td>
<a href="https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu/confluence/display/c/INT34-C.+Do+not+shift+an+expression+by+a+negative+number+of+bits+or+by+greater+than+or+equal+to+the+number+of+bits+that+exist+in+the+operand">[INT34-C. Do not shift an expression by a negative number of bits or by greater than or equal to the number of
bits that exist in the operand]</a>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

## Bibliography

<table>
<tr>
<td>
[SEI CERT JAVA 2024]
</td>
<td>

> NUM01-P3 Do Not Perform Bit-wise and Arithmetic Operations on the Same Data [online]. Available from: <a href="https://eteamspace.internal.ericsson.com/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=1122687324">https://eteamspace.internal.ericsson.com/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=1122687324</a>,  [Accessed 6 May 2025]

Reviewer: Reference to internal page. It should probably be a reference to SEI CERT
```suggestion
NUM01-J. Do not perform bitwise and arithmetic operations on the same data [online]. Available from: <a href="https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu/confluence/display/java/NUM01-J.+Do+not+perform+bitwise+and+arithmetic+operations+on+the+same+data">https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu/confluence/display/java/NUM01-J.+Do+not+perform+bitwise+and+arithmetic+operations+on+the+same+data</a>,  [Accessed 6 May 2025]
```
